Our text this morning
is taken from the article
“Why We ‘Keep Bearing Much Fruit.’”
And the article offered four major reasons
why you and I preach today.
The first reason given was to glorify Jehovah
and to sanctify his name before mankind.
The second reason given was
to show our heartfelt love
for Jehovah and for Jesus.
And the third reason given was
that we preach to give a warning.
And it was none of those three
that I was going to emphasize
in my discussion today.
I wanted to talk about the fourth reason.
We preach because we love our neighbor
—we love our neighbor.
The Watchtower  study article
made a very powerful point
that shows what’s involved
in showing our love
for our neighbor this way.
Here’s what it stated:
“We are moved by such love
to endure in this work,
“recognizing that people
“may have a change of heart
when their circumstances change.”
Now, what does this thought register in us?
It helps us to see why
we should always be positive and enthusiastic
when it comes to sharing
in the preaching work.
We don’t know what the person
to whom we are going to speak
is thinking at that particular visit.
The study article used an example
of a jailer at the time
that Paul and Silas
were arrested in Philippi.
What happened while they were there in jail?
There was an earthquake and things shook.
And the jailer thought that all the prisoners
had been shaken out of their shackles
and that they were able to get out of there.
And so the account at Acts chapter 16,
verse 27 says
that the jailer feared
that the prisoners had fled
“and was about to kill himself.”
“But Paul called out . . . :
‘Do not hurt yourself.’”
The distressed jailer asked:
“What must I do to get saved?”
And Paul and Silas told him:
“Believe in the Lord Jesus,
and you will get saved.”
And we learn something from this.
Sometimes we can meet people
and because of their current circumstance,
we don’t get a listening ear.
But look at what happened to this jailer.
He was making sure everybody
was soundly bound in the jail.
But then when this earthquake came,
he had a change of thought
because of his change of circumstance.
So, what should we learn from this?
This can happen when it comes
to our preaching activity too.
And that’s why in our midweek meetings,
we have all of these demonstrations
of how we can go about in our preaching work
to try to touch the hearts of people.
Now, some individuals did not respond
to the Bible’s message before
when we called on them before.
But they may have a change of heart
and look for help
when their world is suddenly shaken
like this jailer’s world was shaken
when that earthquake took place.
So we never know when something like this
has happened in the lives of people.
And that’s why when we go,
we should always have
that positive state of mind.
I’m reminded of an experience
that I heard some time ago:
The sister had been to a house
in her territory a number of times.
And every time she returned,
this woman at the house was very rude.
But this day, she knocked on the woman’s door
and the same woman answered.
And here’s what the woman said to our sister,
“I’ve been waiting for you to return.”
The sister was shocked
to hear this woman
who’d always been so rude
make such an expression.
And here’s what she said.
The woman said: “I had a relative
in another part of the country call me.
“And that relative told me
“that if I would invite you in when you came,
“you would take my Bible
and show me in my own Bible
“that hell is not a place
of fire and torment.
I want you to show me that.”
And it resulted not only in showing
but also in a productive Bible study
for this woman.
Now, what else could change
a person’s whole attitude toward us
in our preaching work?
They could have been diagnosed
with a very serious illness.
Or they may be heartbroken over losing
a loved relative, or family member, in death.
When such events take place,
some distressed individuals
may ask us questions
about the meaning of life.
And at one time,
those were questions they ignored.
We might call at their door
or even be working on a job with them
when they have
this negative experience in their life
—like the earthquake
that the jailer experienced.
But it’s our love for people that moves us
to take advantage of the opportunities
that we have to help people
when they’re in the proper mood and attitude
for receiving the message.
This particular article
that we’re studying today
mentioned a pioneer brother.
He had been a pioneer for some 34 years.
And here’s what the article
quoted him as saying,
capturing this point
that we’re making here this morning.
He said:
“Today, more than ever,
many people feel emotionally low.”
So our objective is to keep preaching.
Jehovah brings forth the fruitage.
We are His and the angels’ fellow workers.
I put a little more emphasis on that point
because we should always think of that.
We’re not ever in this service by ourselves.
Jehovah is interested in those people;
the angels are interested in those people.
And they know things about those people
that we don’t know
because of their invisible presence
and their personal interest in mankind.
And so Jehovah brings forth the fruitage.
We are His and the angels’ fellow workers.
Another pioneer who has been pioneering
over 30 years, Robert,
was quoted as saying,
“To work along with angels who know
what is going on in the householders’ lives
is exciting.”
Have you ever thought of that
as you go forth into the preaching work,
that you have angelic company?
And those angels know what’s going on.
Back in 2008, we had an Awake!  article,
and the article was entitled
“Can the Problem of Crime Be Solved?”
That was February 2008.
And the book
Inside the Criminal Mind
was written by Dr. Stanton E. Samenow.
And in the article,
it told us to consider
the example of a woman
who had been molested as a child.
She took up drugs;
she abused alcohol and used tobacco.
And at the time that the article was written,
she was serving a life sentence in prison.
But while in prison,
she began to study with us.
See, that prison circumstance
changed her vantage point and her viewpoint.
Well, anyhow, she studied with us,
and she took to heart what she was learning.
And the article says:
“Now she is no longer a slave
“to destructive thinking and vices.
“One of her favorite Bible texts
“is 2 Corinthians 3:17, which states:
“‘Now Jehovah is the Spirit;
“‘and where the spirit of Jehovah is,
there is freedom.’”
So we love the people out there.
That’s why we don’t give up
in our efforts to help them
and that’s why we keep getting
at our midweek meeting
this encouragement to keep preaching
and to have a positive attitude.
Because we don’t know
who or what kind of individual
we’re going to be talking to at each door.
And so we should always have
that positive attitude.